Update enrichment pages (#1773)
snowplow/documentation: docs/pipeline/enrichments/available-enrichments/pii-pseudonymization-enrichment/index.md

keywords: ["PII pseudonymization", "data privacy", "GDPR"]
---

import SchemaProperties from "@site/docs/reusable/schema-properties/_index.md"

> The PII (personally identifiable information) pseudonymization enrichment runs after all the other enrichments, and pseudonymizes the fields that are configured as PIIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The PII (personally identifiable information) pseudonymization enrichment runs after all the other enrichments, and pseudonymizes the fields that are configured as PII.
```

> It enables you to better protect the privacy rights of data subjects, therefore aiding in compliance for regulatory measures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It enables you to better protect the privacy rights of data subjects and comply with data regulation.
```

In Europe the obligations regarding Personal Data handling have been outlined on the [GDPR EU website](https://www.gdpreu.org/the-regulation/key-concepts/personal-data/).

:::tip[Hashed values must match the schema]
Hashing a field can change its format (e.g. email) and its length. This could make a whole valid original event invalid if its schema is not compatible with the hashing.
:::

## Configuration

> For historical reasons, the configuration uses nomenclature that's no longer used elsewhere in Snowplow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For historical reasons, the configuration uses terms that's no longer used elsewhere in Snowplow.
```

import TestingWithMicro from "@site/docs/reusable/test-enrichment-with-micro/_index.md"

<TestingWithMicro/>
```

### `pii` fields

The enrichment can act on most properties in the event:
- A defined subset of [atomic event properties](/docs/fundamentals/canonical-event/index.md), including `user_id`, see below
- [Self-describing event](/docs/fundamentals/events/index.md#self-describing-events) fields
- [Entities](/docs/fundamentals/entities/index.md) attached by tracker SDKs
- Entities attached by other enrichments

Specify `pojo` to hash atomic event fields. The available fields are:
- `user_id`
- `user_ipaddress`
- `user_fingerprint`
- `domain_userid`
- `network_userid`
- `refr_domain_userid`
- `domain_sessionid`
- `ip_organization`
- `ip_domain`
- `mkt_term`
- `mkt_content`
- `mkt_clickid`
- `se_category`
- `se_action`
- `se_label`
- `se_property`
- `tr_orderid`
- `ti_orderid`

Providing a field not in this list will cause a failed event.

For `json`, specify the field name as either `unstruct_event` for self-describing event fields, `contexts` for fields in entities added during tracking, or `derived_contexts` for fields in enrichment entities. Add two additional fields:

> - `schemaCriterion` is the self-describing JSON URI. You can specify all versions of the schema (`*-*-*`), or a specific MODEL version (e.g. `1-*-*`), MODEL plus MINOR (e.g. `1-1-*`) or a full MODEL-MINOR-PATCH version (e.g. `1-1-1`)

Reviewer: Same comment as elsewhere

- `MD2`: the 128-bit algorithm [MD2](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MD2_(cryptography)#MD2_hashes) (not recommended due to performance reasons: see [RFC6149](https://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc6149))

Once you've started using the enrichment, it's important to keep the same `salt` value in order to maintain the same hashed output for the same input. This is crucial for use cases where you need to join events on hashed PII fields, or simply to avoid having different hashed values for the same original value across events.

### `anonymousOnly` mode

When `anonymousOnly` is set to `true`, PII fields are masked only in events tracked in anonymous mode, i.e. when the `SP-Anonymous` header is present.

This feature was added in Enrich 5.3.0.

This is useful for compliance with regulations such as GDPR, where you would start with [anonymous tracking](/docs/events/anonymous-tracking/index.md) by default, and switch to non-anonymous tracking when the user consents to data collection.

By default, `anonymousOnly` is `false`, i.e. PII fields are always masked.

## Output

The fields are updated in place in the enriched event.

> If `emitEvent` is set to `true` in the configuration, for each enriched event, the enrichment will add a `pii_transformation` event to your event stream. This event includes the original, unhashed PII field values.

Reviewer: 1. Not the enriched event stream, the dedicated `pii` stream (as indicated above)
2. This feature no longer exists for quite a while, so this whole section needs to be removed :)
